2023.10.0 (#29156)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2023-10-04-release-202310.markdown

- [New tile card features for climate entities](#new-tile-card-features-for-climate-entities)
- [Tile card feature select entities](#tile-card-feature-select-entities)
- [Password managers and Home Assistant](#password-managers-and-home-assistant)
- [Map entity marker options](#map-entity-marker-options)
- [Other noteworthy changes](#other-noteworthy-changes)
- [New integrations](#new-integrations)
- [Integrations now available to set up from the UI](#integrations-now-available-to-set-up-from-the-ui)
- [Need help? Join the community!](#need-help-join-the-community)
- [Breaking changes](#breaking-changes)
- [All changes](#all-changes)

Don't forget to [join our release party live stream on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-GDonruFfKc)
4 October 2023, at 12:00 PDT / 21:00 CEST!

<lite-youtube videoid="-GDonruFfKc" videotitle="Home Assistant 2023.10 Release Party"></lite-youtube>

## A beautiful updated logo!

In case you've missed it, we have refreshed the Home Assistant logo! 🤩

<img class='no-shadow' src='/images/blog/2023-09-ha10/home-assistant-logo-new.png' alt='The new Home Assistant logo on a gray background.'>

> This was done for the [10th anniversary of Home Assistant](/blog/2023/09/17/10-years-home-assistant/), and you can [read all about this iteration in this blog post](/blog/2023/09/17/a-refreshed-logo-for-home-assistant/). You will start seeing this logo in many more places in the upcoming weeks, but, it is already included this release!

Reviewer: included in this release!

Reviewer: Re-reading, it does work without the preposition too, I think.

<img class='no-shadow' src='/images/blog/2023-10/home-assistant-about.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new logo showing on the about page in the Home Assistant interface.'>

## Brand new My Home Assistant buttons

It is not just the logo that got a facelift; we have beautiful new buttons for [My Home Assistant] as well 🤩.

<center>
<a href="https://my.home-assistant.io" target="_blank"><img class='no-shadow' src='https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/homeassistant.svg' alt='My Home Assistant logo as a button'></a>
</center><br />

If you're unfamiliar with My Home Assistant, it's a free online tool that enables websites, documentation, chat platforms, and blogs to link to places on your Home Assistant server without knowing its address or being exposed to the internet. This ensures your privacy while still allowing a seamless experience.

> In our documentation you'll find those buttons to, for example, add a new integration to your Home Assistant with a single click! Try it yourself! This button below will open up your Home Assistant's interface and shows the integrations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our documentation, you'll find those buttons to, for example, add a new integration to your Home Assistant with a single click! Try it yourself! This button below will open up your Home Assistant's interface and show the integrations
```

you have installed:

<center>

{% my integrations badge %}

</center>

So, if you see these buttons showing up somewhere, you now know what they do! You can easily create your own buttons and links to share on the [create link] page.

[create link]: https://my.home-assistant.io/create-link/
[My Home Assistant]: https://my.home-assistant.io

## New tile card features for climate entities

In the last release, we added [lots of new features for the tile card](/blog/2023/09/06/release-20239/#lots-of-new-tile-features),
including features specifically for controlling your climate devices. This release, we are adding even more!

> [@Weissnix4711] contributed a feature that allows you to add buttons for the presets of your climate device to the tile card. Next,[@piitaya] took it a step further: You can now select which presets you want to show and if you want them in a dropdown list instead of a series of buttons.

Reviewer: Add a space after the comma and before `[@piitaya]`.

Reviewer 3: #29162

---
layout: post
title: "2023.10: New looks and more tile card features!"

> description: "We added more tile card features, added our beautiful new logo, shiny new My Home Assistant buttons, better password manager support and more!"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "We added more tile card features, added our beautiful new logo, shiny new My Home Assistant buttons, better password manager support, and more!"
```

In case you don't know what My Home Assistant is: It is a free online tool, that allows websites, documentation, chat, and blogs like these, to link into places in the Home Assistant server you run at your home, without them actually knowing the address of it and without being exposed to the internet, retaining your privacy.

In our documentation you'll find those buttons to, for example, add a new integration to your Home Assistant with a single click! Try it yourself! This button below will open up your Home Assistant's interface and shows the integrations
you have installed:

<center>

{% my integrations badge %}

</center>

So, if you see these buttons showing up somewhere, you now know what they do! You can easily create your own buttons and links to share on the [create link] page.

[create link]: https://my.home-assistant.io/create-link/
[My Home Assistant]: https://my.home-assistant.io

## New tile card features for climate entities

In the last release, we added [lots of new features for the tile card](/blog/2023/09/06/release-20239/#lots-of-new-tile-features),
including features specifically for controlling your climate devices. This release, we are adding even more!

> [@Weissnix4711] contributed a feature that allows you to add buttons for the presets of your climate device to the tile card. Next,[@piitaya] took it a step further and added the ability to select which presets you want to show and allow showing them in a dropdown list instead of a series of buttons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[@Weissnix4711] contributed a feature that allows you to add buttons for the presets of your climate device to the tile card. Next,[@piitaya] took it a step further: You can now select which presets you want to show and if you want them in a dropdown list instead of a series of buttons.
```

<img class='no-shadow' src='/images/blog/2023-10/tile-card-select.png' alt='Screenshot showing the select feature for the tile card in the Home Assistant interface.'>

This feature can be used for any select entity but also your custom dropdown helpers! (also known as `input_select` entities).

## Password managers and Home Assistant

Using a password manager is arguably one of the best things you can do to
improve your online security. But using them with Home Assistant, depending on
which one you have been using, has been a bit of a pain.

If you've been using one of these password managers that had issues with
Home Assistant, you'll be happy to know that this release fixes that!
For example, 1Password now works!

<img class='no-shadow' src='/images/blog/2023-10/home-assistant-works-with-1password.png' alt='Screenshot from the Home Assistant login screen, that show the use of 1Password'>

## Map entity marker options

The [map card](/dashboards/map/) received new options (thanks [@karwosts]!)
for your entity markers that are shown on the map.

You can now choose if you want the entity name to be rendered on the map

> or the entity state, but you could also override the name alltogether. You could,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or the entity state, but you could also override the name altogether. You could,
```

for example, show state values, instead of the name, for the entities providing
gas prices, so you can see where the cheapest gas is.

<center>
<img class='no-shadow' src='/images/blog/2023-10/map-features-prices.png' alt='Screenshot of a map card showing gas prices on the map.'>
</center><br />

> When centering the map all entities on the map are taken into account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When centering the map, all entities on the map are taken into account.
```

{% enddetails %}

{% details "OpenTherm Gateway" %}

Some of the older binary sensors and sensors from the OpenTherm gateway have
been deprecated since January 2021. They have now been removed. Please use
the new binary sensors and sensors that have been created since.

([@joostlek] - [#99712]) ([documentation](/integrations/opentherm_gw))

[@joostlek]: https://github.com/joostlek
[#99712]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/99712

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Pentair ScreenLogic" %}

Some entity names have changed. The integration will migrate old entities
to new names/IDs. You may have to manually update old entities used
in, for example, your dashboards.

Invalid entities such as "Saturation Index" are removed
if the required equipment is not configured.

([@dieselrabbit] - [#92475]) ([documentation](/integrations/screenlogic))

[@dieselrabbit]: https://github.com/dieselrabbit
[#92475]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/92475

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Supervisor" %}

The default name given to backups created with the `hassio.full_backup`
and `hassio.partial_backup` services are no longer the UTC date and time the

> backup was initiated but use the local date and time instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
backup was initiated. Instead, the local date and time are used for the name.
```
